Gaza there are growing international
calls for an investigation into Mass
Graves that have been discovered in the
south of the strip the European Union
has now joined the United Nations in
demanding an independent Probe on
Wednesday another 51 bodies were found
in the grounds of the hospital in Khan
units more than 300 have been discovered
since
Saturday we are gravely concerned by the
by the reported discovery of M graves in
Khan Yunis and in alifa hospital this is
something that uh for forces us to call
for an independent investigation of all
the suspicions and all the circumstances
uh because indeed uh it uh it creates
the the impression that there might have
been violations of international human
rights committee that's why it's
important to have independent
investigation and to ensure the
accountability the United Nations and
the European union now calling for an
independent investigation into those
Mass Graves but what's that going to
look like well Luigi daniielle is a
senior lecturer in international law and
international criminal law at Nottingham
law school and he was among the
academics invited by human rights
organizations to discuss the special
rapporter Gaza genocide report at the UN
Human Rights Council he's joining us
live now from London thank you very much
indeed from being with us Aid agencies
and foreign governments and the UN
itself have been Gathering to some
degree or another evidence to suggest
that Israel has been committing war
crimes in Gaza since October of last
year why has nothing happened yet and
will this call for an independent
investigation into this case actually
make any
difference thanks Rob for the question
it's 6 months we are witnessing reports
by a multiplicity of credible human
rights organizations media Outlets
documenting Relentless targeting of
civilians or otherwise protected
Palestinians um at least 251 Aid workers
have been killed uh the Office of the
coordination of humanitarian Affairs
counts
490 health workers killed since the
beginning of this military campaign so
it's true that there have been no
concrete results of existing
investigations but we don't know if
nothing has happened because the
international criminal court was already
investigating probable International
Crimes by both parties to this conflict
and the prosecutor of the international
criminal court has made clear in
multiple occasions that the court is
investigating also probable crimes
committed by the Israeli Army uh so
there is a distinct likelihood that
arrest warrants are imminent even for
Israeli leaders but let me stress that
they are long overdue uh Injustice and
systematic crimes have have already been
committed on a horrific scale as these
Mass Graves demonstrates so the
International Community should pressure
uh immediate arrest warrants to try to
prevent the continuation of these crimes
as you said the the procedure of uh
bringing a prosecution at the
international criminal court takes a
significant amount of time we've covered
many of those cases here in Al jaer and
they invariably seem to spread over
years do you think that the threat of
being prosecuted at the international
criminal court actually is regarded as a
severe Threat by people who perhaps in
some cases have actually committed war
crimes yes to be honest Israeli media
Outlets have reported a few days ago an
emergency meeting of the Israeli
executive out of fear of imminent arrest
warrants unfortunate unfortunately the
fact that these investigations are
extremely complex take long time it's of
no justification in this case because
consider that the first engagement of
the Palestinian Authority with the
international criminal court demanding
justice for all crimes is of almost 10
years ago and this investigation has
been pending for years uh in relation to
the second part of your question uh
unfortunately the Israeli executive has
repeatedly
communicated uh to feel Above the Law of
war and above international criminal law
so irrespective of these Israeli leaders
perception uh about International crimes
it's The credibility of an international
rules based system that needs these
arrest warrants to restore the minimum
levels of international legality that
are needed in the long run to achieve a
just peace if if you deprive victims of
these horrific crimes of any form of
recognition of their
victimization uh you are not working for
a just peace and for equal rights on the
contrary this failure reproduces spirals
of Civilian victimization and so the
same mistake cannot be committed anymore
sorry to interrupt you but just briefly
on that because you've ra raised a very
interesting point I
mean in the event that prosecutions were
brought how confident could people
affected on both sides by this war be
that somebody is actually going to be
held to a to account and I'm talking
about people on both sides of the
conflict who have lost family members
and uh and
Friends exactly this is a crucial issue
because all the relatives of civilians
killed injured targeted unlawfully on
all sides of these uh seemingly Lawless
Conflict at the moment deserve justice
and I think the likelihood of
accountability if the situation is
unblocked is high uh I cannot do it but
should I read to you the 54 war crimes
conduct codified in the Rome statute of
the international criminal court dozens
of them appear to have been committed so
once this uh Pro prosecution gets to the
next stage it will take time but we can
be confident that some degree of
accountability can be achieved this is
not enough to reach a just solution to
this conflict but it's for sure an
essential prerequisite to go into this
direction Luigi danieli we appreciate
you giving us the benefit of your
expertise in this thank you very much
indeed for your
time thanks for having
me make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from Al jazer